***ANSWER ALL OF THE QUESTIONS BELOW***

What is a programming language?
Answer: A programming language is a set of rules that converts graphical program elements in visual programming language
to various kind of machine code output. It is also kind of computer language.

What is a JDK composed of? Define each components?
Answer: JDK: Java Development Kit is a software development environment used for developing java applications and applets.
it includes JRE (java Runtime Environment) itself consists of the JVM (Java Virtual Machine, it support files and core classes.
an interpreter/loader(java),
a compiler (javac)
an archiver (jar),
a documentation generator(javadoc)

What is an IDE?
Answer:Integrated development environment is a software application that helps programmers develop software code efficiently.
it increases developers productivity by combining capabilities such as software editing, building, testing and
packaging in as easy to use application.

What are some of the most popular Java IDEs available in the market?
Answer: IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, NetBeans, BlueJ, JCreator, JDeveloper, Drjava, MyEclipse

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Answer: There are three main stages in the java life cycle:
Editing the program, Compiling the source code, Executing the byte code.
 First Editing the program-You will start with typing the program in a text-editior, After completing editing of thr
 program we have to save the file. while saving the file you have to save it with java extension. eg: (testing.java)
 2nd step is compliation. the name of the java compiler is javac. the input to the compiler java source which is available
 in (testing.java). The output of the compiler is machine independent which is called bytecode. The file which is
 generated after compilation is (class file) so my example of the bytecode file will be testing.class.
 last step is execution. The bytecode generated by the compiler will be executed by JVM. The input to the JVM is
 bytecode and output is machine code(0's and 1's) which will be executed by the CPU of local machine.

What is a class?
Answer: A Class is a template or blueprint from which objects are created.

What is an object?
Answer: An object is a member (it is also called instance) of a java class. each object has an identity a behavior and
a state.

What is the entry point of a Java project?
Answer: Entry point of a java project is a class having a method with signature public static void main(string[] args)

Why is the main() method static?
Answer: The main() method is always static so that compiler can call it with out creating an object or before creating of
an object of the class. in any java program the main() method is starting point from where compiler starts program
execution so it has to be called the main() method.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Answer: The object class

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Answer: PATH is set for java tools in java programs like java and javac, which are used to compile your code.
CLASSPATH variables is used by system or application class loader to locate and load compile java byte code in the
class file

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Answer: An abstract class allows you to create functionality that subclasses can implement or override its method.
an abstract class can have constructors.
An interface only allows you to define funtionality not implement it. An interface does not have constructors.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? If yes or no, how would you do it?
Answer: NO, we can't create an object of an abstract class. To implement features of an abstract class we
inherit subclasses.


What is Access Modifier?
Answer: The access modifiers in Java specifies the accessibility or scope of a field, method, constructor, or class.
 We can change the access level of fields, constructors, methods, and class by applying the access modifier on it.

What is OOP? Define each OOP concept.
Answer: OOP is Object-Oriented Programming. It is about creating object that contain both data and methods.
OOP concepts are : polymorphism, abstraction, encapsulation and inheritance

What is Java Package andA java package is a group of similar types of classes, interfaces and sub-packages.
Answer:A java package is a group of similar types of classes, interfaces and sub-packages.
lang Package. Java compiler imports java. lang package internally by default.
It provides the fundamental classes that are necessary to design a basic Java program.

What is an API? List some API's that you have used so far.
Answer: API stands for application programming interface, API is the part of a software component that is accessible to
other components. Public and private

Does java support multiple inheritance? Why or why not?
Answer: NO,Java does not support multiple inheritance because Multiple inheritances lead to ambiguity.
For example, if there is a class named Sub and there are two classes Super1 and Super2 and if both contains a method
named sample(). And if the class sub inherits both classes Super1 and Super2 then there will be two copies of the sampling
method one from each superclass and it is ambiguous to decide which method to be executed.

What is method overloading? List all of the different ways to overload.
Answer: It is based on the number and type of the parameters passed as an argument to the methods. We can not define
more than one method with the same name, Order, and type of the arguments. It would be a compiler error.
The number of parameters in two methods.
The data types of the parameters of methods.
The Order of the parameters of methods.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle them.
Answer: An exception is an event, which occurs during the execution of a program, that disrupts the normal flow
of the program's instructions. The try-catch is the simplest method of handling exceptions.

What is static keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer: The static keyword is a non-access modifier used for methods and attributes. Static methods/attributes can
be accessed without creating an object of a class.
The static keyword is used for a constant variable or a method that is the same for every instance of a class.
The users can apply static keywords with variables, methods, blocks, and nested classes.

What is final keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer: The final keyword is a non-access modifier used for classes, attributes and methods, which makes them
non-changeable. The final keyword is useful when you want a variable to always store the same value.
It can be used with variables, methods, and classes. Once any entity (variable, method or class) is declared final ,
it can be assigned only once.

Explain the difference between final, finally and finalize?
Answer: -The final keyword can be used with class method and variable. A final class cannot be inherited,
a final method cannot be overridden and a final variable cannot be reassigned.
-The finally keyword is used to create a block of code that follows a try block. A finally block of code always executes,
whether an exception has occurred. Using a finally block allows you to run any cleanup-type statements that you
just wish to execute, despite what happens within the protected code.
- The finalized is used just before object is destroyed and can be called just prior to object creation.

What is a constructor?
Answer: A constructor in Java is a special method that is used to initialize objects. The constructor is called
when an object of a class is created. It can be used to set initial values for object attributes

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Answer:YES, There can be multiple constructors in a class. However, the parameter list of the constructors
should not be same.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Answer: If a class does not explicitly declare any, the Java compiler automatically provides a no-argument constructor,
called the default constructor.

What is "this" keyword in Java? When would we use it?
Answer: THIS keyword refers to current object in a method or constructor.
the this keyword is to eliminate the confusion between class attributes and parameters with thesame name (because
a class attribute is shadowed by a method or constructor parameter).

What is "super" keyword in Java? What are some scenarios we would use it?
Answer: Super refers to superclass (parent) object. It is used to call superclass methods, and to access the superclass
constructor. The most common use of the super keyword is to eliminate the confusion between superclasses and subclasses
that have methods with the same name.

What does JVM stand for?
Answer: Java virtual machine

Is JVM platform independent?
Answer: NO, Java is platform-independent but JVM is platform dependent

What version of Java are you using?
Answer: jdk-11.0.16.1

What does JAR stand for?
Answer: Java ARchive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Answer: JDK (Java Development Kit) is a software development kit to develop applications in Java.
JVM (Java Virtual Machine) is an abstract machine. It is a specification that provides a runtime environment in which
java bytecode can be executed.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Answer: JVM (Java Virtual Machine) is an abstract machine. It is a specification that provides a runtime environment in which
java bytecode can be executed.
JRE(Java Runtime Environment) is the implementation of JVM and it is specially designed to execute Java programs.
It is used to provide the runtime environment.


Explain the difference between compile-time and run-time?
Answer: Compile-time is the time at which the source code is converted into an executable code. Both the compile-time
and runtime refer to  different types of error.
The compile-time errors are the errors which are produced at the compile-time, and they are detected by the compiler.
In this case, the compiler prevents the code from execution if it detects an error in the program.
It contains the syntax and semantic errors such as missing semicolon at the end of the statement.

The run time is time at which the executable code is started running.
The runtime errors are the errors which are not generated by the compiler and produce an unpredictable result at the
execution time. In this case, the compiler does not detect the error, so it cannot prevent the code from the execution.
It contains the errors such as division by zero, determining the square root of a negative number.

What is heap?
Answer: heap is the area of memory used to store objects instantiated by applications running on the JVM.
When the JVM is started, heap memory is created and any objects in the heap can be shared between threads as long as the
application is running.

How does Java manage its memory?
Answer: Java does memory management automatically. Java uses an automatic memory management system called a
garbage collector. Thus, we are not required to implement memory management logic in our application.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Answer: String is immutable(once created cannot be changed) whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable classes
(can change the value of object once created).StringBuffer is thread-safe and synchronized whereas StringBuilder is not.
That’s why StringBuilder is faster than StringBuffer.String concatenation operator (+) internally uses StringBuffer or
StringBuilder class. String consume more memory whereas stringBuffer and stringBuilder consume less memory.

What is Singleton class?
Answer:singleton class is a class that can have only one object (an instance of the class) at a time. After the first
time, if we try to instantiate the Singleton class, the new variable also points to the first instance created.
So whatever modifications we do to any variable inside the class through any instance, affects the variable of the
single instance created and is visible if we access that variable through any variable of that class type defined.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Answer: Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream. Deserialization is the
reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory. This mechanism is used to
persist the object. The byte stream created is platform independent.

Explain the difference between While and Do..While loops?
Answer: While loop checks the condition first and then executes the statement. While loop is entry controlled loop,
Do.while loop will execute the statement at least once, then the condition is checked. do while is exit controlled loop.

What is Enum?
Answer: An enum is a special "class" that represents a group of constants (unchangeable variables, like final variables)
Enums are often used in switch statements to check for corresponding values. Enum is short for "enumerations", which
means "specifically listed".

What is Iterator?
Answer: An Iterator is an object that can be used to loop through collections, like ArrayList and HashSet. It is called
an "iterator" because "iterating" is the technical term for looping. To use an Iterator, you must import it from the
java.util package.

Which one will take more memory: an int or Integer? Why?
Answer: Integer takes more memory..
 int is a primitive data type and takes 32 bits(4 bytes) to store. On other hand Integer is an object which takes
 128 bits (16 bytes) to store its int value.Integer is a class that wraps a primitive type int in an object.

Why are Strings considered to be immutable in Java?
Answer: The String is immutable in Java because of the security, synchronization and concurrency, caching, and class
loading. The reason of making string final is to destroy the immutability and to not allow others to extend it.
The String objects are cached in the String pool, and it makes the String immutable.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Answer: constructor chaining is a sequence of invoking constructors upon initializing an object. It is used when we
want to invoke a number of constructors, one after another by using only an instance.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Answer: The only difference between serial and parallel garbage collector is that serial garbage collector uses a
single thread for garbage collection process while the parallel garbage collector uses multiple threads for the garbage
collection.

What does JIT stands for?
Answer: Just-in-time

Explain the process of Java garbage collection?
Answer: Java garbage collection is the process by which Java programs perform automatic memory management. The Garbage
Collector finds the unused objects and deletes them to reclaim the memory.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Answer: No, Garbage collection does not guarantee that a program will not run out of memory

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Answer: Java Heap Space is used throughout the application, but Stack is only used for the method — or methods — currently running.
The Heap Space contains all objects are created, but Stack contains any reference to those objects.
Objects stored in the Heap can be accessed throughout the application. Primitive local variables are only accessed the
Stack Memory blocks that contain their methods.Memory allocation in the Heap Space is accessed through a complex,
young-generation, old-generation system. Stack is accessed through a last-in, first-out (LIFO) memory allocation system.
Heap Space exists as long as the application runs and is larger than Stack, which is temporary, but faster.


What is reflection in Java and why is it useful?
Answer:Java Reflection is a process of examining or modifying the run time behavior of a class at run time.
It is used to control class and its members at runtime, including fields, methods, constructor.

What is multithreading in Java?
Answer:Multithreading is a Java feature that allows concurrent execution of two or more parts of a program for maximum
utilization of CPU. Each part of such program is called a thread. So, threads are light-weight processes within a process.


What is synchronization in Java?
Answer: Synchronization in Java is the capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource.


What is a Framework?
Answer: Java Framework is the body or platform of pre-written codes used by Java developers to develop Java
applications or web applications.

what are the testing frameworks available in java?
Answer: Selenium, JUnit, TestNG, SerenityBDD, Mockito, Cucumber

What are jUnit and testNG?
Answer: JUnit is an open source Unit Testing Framework for JAVA. It is useful for Java Developers to write and run
repeatable tests.
TestNG is an open-source test automation framework for Java. It is developed on the same lines of JUnit and NUnit.
it is used more frequently by developers and testers in test case creation.

What are the dependencies for this project?
Answer:

What is dependency injection in Java?
Answer:Dependency injection (DI) is the concept in which objects get other required objects from outside. it can be
implemented in any programming language.

Explain what static binding and dynamic binding is?
Answer: static binding refers to the execution of a program where type of object is determined/known at compile
time i.e when compiler executes the code it know the type of object or class to which object belongs.
When the compiler resolves the method call binding during the execution of the program, such a process is known as
Dynamic in Java. We also call Dynamic binding as Late Binding because binding takes place during the actual execution
of the program.